The output and correctness of each algorithm – You should summarize, visualize, or highlight some part of the full-scale run of each algorithm. Additionally, the report should briefly describe what tests you performed to confirm that each algorithm was working as intended.

Our first algorithm that we used was Dijkstra. We used this to implement finding the shortest path, traverse our road network and select non-visited nodes to the shortest path tree and return -1 for the unreachable nodes. The purpose of using Dijkstra was to obtain the shortest path from a start to an end node by printing out the edges used in each specific path. Some of the tests we performed to confirm the correctness of each algorithm was to manually write the edges for some paths with a curtailed dataset. We then also created tests that contained the entire dataset and looked for the shortest adjacent nodes for sanity checks. These tests confirmed our correctness and helped us to fix our bugs.

Our second algorithm that we used was PageRank. We implemented this through using the Euclidean norm formula and choosing an undirected algorithm because roads don't have a virtual direction. After we run Djikstra on our processed and cleaned dataset, we run the pagerank algorithm on a specific starting node to understand the "significance" and "relevance" of that node in vision of the rest of the road network. We created tests to check our adjacency matrix and the connected nodes to each other on a smaller scale as compared to our original dataset.

The answer to your leading question – You should direct address your proposed leading question. How did you answer this question? What did you discover? If your project was ultimately unsuccessful, give a brief reflection about what worked and what you would do differently as a team.

Because our dijsktra's algorithm appeared to execute correctly, we were successful in finding the shortest paths. However, we don't have a specific answer for all the nodes, but by running the code with user input we can see the shortest path from one node to another. Through PageRank, we'll also have the results for the most prominent and relevant locations among the rest in the road network. (CHANGE LATER ONCE PAGERANK IS FIXED) We discovered that the shortest paths between nodes that had less connected nodes were often directed towards a node with more connections, which makes sense because a location that is more isolated and remote than other will have its shortest path to another location that is less isolated and with more road connections.
